---
title: relate
date: 2014-01-13 05:08 UTC
tags: Musings, Life
colorClass: CCmutedGreen
headerImg: True
imgWrapLoc: 25
comments: true
---

Relationships are a whole lot of fun. Whether they are romantic or just a long term friendship, the connections with people around us can define our lives. So how does one build a long-lasting relationship? Ignoring my limited number of revolutions around the Sun, I would like to share some of the things that I think are the most important in any relationshipREADMORE. 

1. ###Try New Things:  
	
	Novelty is the spice of life and novelty has a huge application in relationships. No one likes to do the same thing over and over again, much less watch people go through the same motions everyday. So what do we do? How do we keep a relationship novel? I would suggest continuing to do the things you find enjoyable, but sharing your progress with others. The intention of this is not to make everything about yourself, but instead this gives the opportunity for discussion to arise about things you are interested in. Another option is to go out of your way to do novel or exciting things. It is easy to become complacent in a relationship and slowly enter a situation where you do fewer and fewer interesting things. Take the opportunity to reverse that by specifically planning things you are excited about whether that be rock climbing or just playing boardgames on weeknights. Novelty makes things exciting and activities make it easier to ignore monotonous work-weeks or time apart.

	__TL;DR: Do new things, change is much more fun than boredom__

2. ###Communicate:

	Communication is possibly the most obvious, but essential, element on this list. It is the heart of any relationship and one of the most fun parts as well.

	> Quick Aside Here:  
	Let's back up for a second. Why (in your personal life) would you try to form a lasting relationship with someone you don't want to communicate with? Just communicate. All it takes is one conversation to reduce stress or remove unneeded animosity. People can't read other people's minds. That might be fun for like two seconds, but seriously it is better this way. So suck it up and communicate.

	Whenever one begins to discuss communication some questions will inevitably arise, and the majority of these will stem from the root question of "What is OK to talk about?" If you have just met a person, pop-culture would suggest the weather as a suitable topic or a discussion of careers. Both of these topics either allow the individuals to find common ground, "Yes it is hot out this week," or discuss themselves and learn about the other person. Once you have known someone for longer a wider variety of topics presents itself. This expansion of topics is likely based upon the previous interactions you have had with that person and boundaries that have come about naturally.  

	Communications with romantic partners work with a slightly different dynamic, and in this case I would suggest talking about literally everything. The ability to trust your partner not to judge you is invaluable, so discuss whatever you want to. Simply discussing things is a great way to build trust in a relationship and ensure that everyone is happy. This increased trust can then lead to the ability to discuss more topics and the cycle repeats.  

	> Discuss what you want from the relationship at both a physical and personal level. Mutual understanding in these areas leads to a much more dynamic and healthy relationship. 

	Also don't forget to discuss problems you are having in a relationship. It is very easy to over-think a small comment or become obsessed with a negative issue that the other person may not even know exists. Talking about issues is just as important as talking about the things in the relationship that are going right. 

	__TL:DR: Talk to people, it helps__

3. ###Keep Building:

	When a relationship works it is easy to become complacent and think: "Well this is pretty awesome, time to kick back and relax," but this thinking is flawed. While it is nice to have the security that comes along with a relationship that is going well, most likely the current status of the relationship was caused by hard work you put in to get to the current point. The key is to continue to put that same effort into the relationship. Without effort, the relationship is more than likely to stagnate and lead to eventual boredom or worse animosity. So just keep buying flowers or talking to your friends and work to perpetuate the relationships you have. 

	__TL:DR: Keep up the good work__    

4. ###Have Fun:

	Relationships at a base level are highly rewarding, so take advantage of the opportunities that they give you. Go out with friends, kiss the girl, form a ska band that only covers Beatles songs...whatever. When you have high-quality and long-lasting relationships have some fun with them. Friends are a great asset so go crazy and have some fun, you deserve it.

	__TL:DR: Have Fun__